# April 2, 2024 • OCC Meeting Notes

|| |
|:---------------:|:----------------------------------------------|
|  Attendees       | Sophie Bui, Colin Thomas, Kevin Hunter Kesling, Joshua Bryan, Reid Mello, Ben Clifford, Logan Ward, Chris Janidlo, Kent Lee, Kyle Chard|
| Purpose| An open space to discuss topics surrounding activities such as user projects and needs, what’s going on in the community, core development, code review, development infrastructure, software release, etc.|
| Links | Join Parsl-Project Slack for access to important info and Zoom link: <a href="https://bit.ly/join-parsl-slack" target="_blank">https://bit.ly/join-parsl-slack</a>|
| Next Meeting | April 16, 2024 @ 11 a.m. CST                 |

<hr>

### Presentation: "Leveraging Intermediate Data Management with Parsl/TaskVine" by Colin Thomas<br>
**Overview**: The TaskVine executor, developed by Notre Dame’s [Cooperative Computing Lab](https://ccl.cse.nd.edu/), allows Parsl workflows to utilize the local storage of worker nodes, improving cluster bandwidth and minimizing data movement. This talk will introduce work on extending TaskVine intermediate data handling to Parsl with additional related features.
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1O0dq8q2toq48v67WJgHrRJB5t_bKKbaUsv3xzwP3Kf4/edit#slide=id.g26c5e79b768_0_1157" target="_blank">Presentation slides</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://youtu.be/wGCNcclYH6w?si=ZxreM8aKIn1X-okD" target="_blank">Watch the recorded talk</a></li>
</ul>

**Brief Summary** (items discussed by speakers and meeting attendees)
<ul>
  <li>Optimizing workflow system for intermediate data management</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Discussed the importance of supporting features in the test workflow system, including data recovery, temp file replication, and transient error accounting.</li>
      <li>Highlighted the benefits of these features, such as tracking the provenance of lost files and staging data for future tasks, to mitigate the risks of using opportunistic resources</li>
      <li>Discussed developing a technique to avoid failed node transfers in a distributed computing </li>
      <li>Found that the task fine temporary files had the fastest execution time, with the high throughput executor having the longest execution time.</li>
      <li>The high throughput executor version created more intermediate data on the shared file system, leading to slower performance.</li>
      <li>Discussed the challenge of expressing intermediate data in the parcel API, asking for thoughts on specifying an attribute of a file object.</li>
      <li>Presented a preliminary solution, declaring every task output as a temporary file, and setting the file as an input to the last task to get around the issue.</li>
    </ul>
  <li>File handling in Parsl and task executor</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Discussed Parsl file handling and its limitations, mentioning the potential for Globus Compute to improve file transfer.</li>
      <li>Discussed issues with Condor provider, including excessive file generation and lack of control over job lifecycle.</li>
      <li>Suggested using small blocks for efficient scaling in HPC </li>
    </ul>
  
</ul>


### General Community Announcements <br>
**Description**: 
<ul>
  <li>We officially reached 100 contributors on March 18th! We are going to explore  using the <a href="http://allcontributors.org" target="_blank">allcontributors.org</a> bot to easily recognize contributors. </li>
  <li>CZI Biomed Workshop Planning: If you’re working on a project/feature/tool that leverages Parsl and is beneficial to the Biomed community, we want to hear from you. DM Sophie on Slack and keep an eye out for more announcements in the near future</li>
  <li><a href="https://bit.ly/parsl-occ-signup">Open community call talk sign-up sheet</a>: establish a workflow that allows our users to sign up to present their work, progress, and findings</li>
  <li>Work with facilities to get Parsl documentation included in their resources – <a href="https://docs.nersc.gov/jobs/workflow/parsl/#how-parsl-works">NERSC example</a></li>
  <li>If you have blog posts or want to write a blog post for our site, news articles, or publications that include Parsl that you want added to our site, please share it with us! We want to highlight your work.</li>
</ul>

### Outreachy Participation Updates <br>
**Description**: The applicant contribution period is officially over. Mentors will be reviewing applications over the week and selecting interns for our two projects.
<ul>
  <li>Thank you to everyone who helped provide support during the last month to these applicants. We have made note of improvements and highlights for future participation</li>
  <li>Interns will be selected by April 9th. Internship starts on May 27 so we have some time to develop/organize tasks we want the interns to work on. </li>
</ul>
